Reuven, welcome back to Talk Python to Me.
Awesome to have you here.
Thank you so much.
Delightful to be here with you.
Yes, we're coming up on conference season,
and I saw you doing conference things.
So I thought I'd reach out and see if you wanted to do
a bit of a conversation about what you're going to be
covering at PyCon.
Absolutely.
Yeah, I'm really excited.
I mean, I love conferences.
I love seeing people.
I definitely got to the point where they're like conference friends
see every year and we can sort of
catch up
and hang out. It's just like a fun, fun experience.
I always tell anyone who can, like go to conferences. It's a great place to learn,
but it's also just a great place to have fun.
I agree with that. I also think it's a great way to
connect more deeply with programming and technology and libraries and all that kind of stuff.
It's real easy for, I think for a lot of folks for this to feel like a set of tutorials and
documentation, right? And then you get there and you're like, oh, all these people are doing it.
They're excited. And there's the person that made that one. And, you know, like to swim in those
waters, it's different.
I also feel like it's kind of sad, but I mean, I go to all these companies
and I get a feeling that for many people who are in programming nowadays, it's kind of lost its fun
and its creativity. And so it's very nice to be in a community where because open source,
Everyone's there because they want to be there and because they are excited about it.
And you can sort of like recharge your excitement batteries, as it were, and realize, oh, there's more to this than just the drudgery of day-to-day and meetings and
filling
my corporate goals.
Yeah.
It's nice.
It's fun.
It is.
And speaking of just swimming in the waters and what is water, right?
That famous quote, you talked about how it's so much fun because of open source and things like that.
I hadn't thought about that for a little while.
When I work on stuff, I can just do whatever I want.
If I want to share it, I can share it.
I don't have to share it.
Use whatever libraries that might be coming along that look promising.
There's not a
corporate mandate like,
we're going to have these features for our library in seven months
because the customer demand asks for this
and we're going to put this thing in to promote our cloud
or our other thing or whatever, right?
There's a lot of people out there writing code
with a lot less flexibility.
Oh my God,
yes.
And I seem
to see more such people each year.
And I also feel like, I always say,
like I have this sort of dual flexibility
that I feel very privileged to have
that A, I'm a freelancer, I'm independent
and B, I work in open source.
So I can say such and such is dumb
or such and such is bad.
And people at a normal job, as it were, have to sort of say, well, this is our
product and
it's great.
Or at least they have to
say it's the outside
world.
Whereas day to day, they're just going to meetings saying, how can we convince people that this is great?
So,
yeah, yeah, it's a nice way to escape that corporate golden handcuffs.
Oh, I'm making it sound really terrible.
For all of you listening, I'm happy you have good jobs.
I really am.
Unfortunately, I'm afraid people might start having to appreciate their jobs a little bit more.
Things are looking a little hectic out there.
I don't want to go into that, but one little side diversion before we dive into the main topic.
You go into all these big companies.
What's the LLM AI story for those
folks?
Is it different than
people on the outside who can just YOLO around the tools however they want?
Or what's it like?
so every company is different every company is asking that question right and no one has an
answer i think a growing number of companies are assuming that their people will use llms of some
sort uh copilot's been around for a while people are using that uh a year ago i have one big client
where they said no of course we would never use chat gpt and just a few weeks ago i said so like
what's the story oh yeah we're definitely using some things we'll get back to you on a lot so
So it's
been increasingly
integrated just because, especially, you know, if you're a senior developer, these LLMs really help you just zoom along.
The junior ones, it's sort of like a little ifpier, but everyone at least has to answer the question, what are you doing with these?
And I think it's increasingly integrated into their workflow.
I don't think anyone knows, like, what is the right way to do it.
I do think that these companies that are talking about, well, we're not going to hire any developers this coming year because instead we're just going to use LLMs.
That's just nuts.
I think they're asking for trouble there.
And in general, I tell people,
don't have the LLMs write code for you.
Have it help you strategize.
Have it go over your code.
Have it help you learn things.
But somewhere, somehow,
they're going to have LLM-generated code
that no one's going to look at.
And I don't like that idea so much,
at least for now.
Interesting.
I would not trust 100% LLM written code.
Not even necessarily
because I think LLMs are bad at writing code.
I'm stunned at how good they are at it.
But they write the code that you ask them to write.
Even if they get it 100% right,
they write what you ask them to write.
And it's like, I'm just seeing the office space guy,
like, I'm good with
customers.
I talk to the customers.
What would you say you do here, Bob?
Like that guy?
I mean, you've got to give the specifications to the AI.
really, really well.
There you go. There you go. So when ChatGPT first came out, right, it was this
whole meme of the programming language everyone needs to learn now is English. Because all you
have to do is tell the LLM what you want to do, and it will come out with code. Voila, problem
solved. And anyone who has worked on a project before, and especially anyone who's worked with
clients before, non-technical clients, knows that the gap between specifying what you want in clear,
precise language and getting code that does it can be vast. And the difference between success and
failure. I often tell my students one of my favorite lines that I heard years ago, which is,
computers don't do what you want them to do. They do what you tell them to do.
And like, we've all been bitten by that so many times.
Yeah, we definitely have. We definitely have. All right. Well, I think this is a story that's
going to continue to get just more insane.
It's going to be interesting to see where things go. I think it's both going to
supercharge open source, but also
super royal cost turbulence for
programmers, right? So we're going to see.
No, no question.
I 100% agree.
Yeah. So
you know, with all this, we haven't given you a chance to introduce
yourself to
everyone because everyone
knows reuben but maybe for the couple people down real quick
introduction fantastic
so yeah so i'm reuben learner and i teach python and pandas and git
for a living i've been doing for a long time since like 1995 or so um and so half of my work is going
to companies and doing training there and the other half is uh doing online learning i've got my own
platform we have folks i've got newsletters youtube channel um online boot camp that i do
and my goal is just like to help people wherever they are with their Python Pandas knowledge to
advance, get better, get more fluent.
Awesome. Well, that's pretty much the story of this
episode as well. But I also, I mean, that's a great introduction.
But I didn't know you were such an athlete. I mean, you didn't even talk about all these
workout books that you're writing and you're a workout influencer.
Yeah, well, I wish it were more physical than virtual.
But yeah, yeah.
So I've got my two books published with Manning, Python Workout and
Panda's Workout.
And actually, Python Workout is now in its second edition in early release form.
So it's a relatively minor update to take advantage of all the new stuff that's come out of Python in the last, what, three, four, five years.
So it's not like a huge overhaul, but like something there.
Some of the exercises that everyone kind of said, really, you want to do that?
And so like, yeah, there are always some stinkers in there.
But overall, it's great fun.
And the idea is, you know, Manning and I came with the title, but the idea is you're only
going to get better if you do lots of little practice every day.
I often say that it's similar to learning a language, but actually, like I have started
running in the last few months.
And like, what do you know?
you do a little more each day, a little more each day. And then like, you know, every so often you'll
get injured, but like, then you go back to it. And so over time you build up the strength and the
stamina and the fluency so that you can really like get into a project and do what you need and not
be looking everything up all the time.
You know, one of the things I noticed when I, you know,
as you, I've done a lot of in-person corporate training type stuff, not for a while, but,
you know, over my career. I think it's really interesting. You go interact with all these folks,
some of whom are brand new on a team or a project, but others have been, you know, like I've been in
the company for 20 years and that's usually really awesome. However, there's certainly plenty of
times that I saw people who had 20 years of experience, but it didn't feel like they had
20 years of experience knowledge in the sense that they kind of did the same thing you did in the
first couple years and just kept doing that for 18 more rather than having a wide-ranging set of
experiences. And it's like a lot of things, like exercise, like sports, like other skills, without
focused practice on something,
you can get sort of into a rut
or get really good at like a few things,
but you're like,
well, I've never really created a website.
I always just work on this database layer.
It's like 20 years?
Okay, spread out of it.
Come on.
And I feel like this is the kind of stuff
you're talking about maybe.
That's exactly it.
That you want to get this wide variety of practice.
So the books,
I don't think I said this explicitly,
but the books are all exercises.
Like there's some comments in there and some sort of, shall we call them like mini or micro
tutorials to get you up to speed.
But the idea is you've already learned Python.
You've already learned Pandas.
And now you just need to practice and better that you practice with, in what I call controlled
frustration in this sort of like, you know, environment where it's not going to matter
to your job, then you get to work and your boss is breathing down your neck and you've
got deadlines.
And I try to make it as varied as possible so that you'll sort of be exposed to as many
different ideas as possible. So even if you don't remember it 100%, you'd be like, oh, wait, here,
I probably could have used a dictionary comprehension. I don't quite remember exactly what
syntax is, but that's probably the right direction. And that's way better than, what do I do now?
We're just doing it the wrong way.
Yeah, absolutely. And circling back a bit to our LLM conversation,
getting exposure to all these things, you know, like, well, the LLM wrote this and it looked weird
and I didn't understand it. But now I see what it was doing. It was using this thing that I hadn't
really played with, this aspect of the language I hadn't played with?
Yeah, one of the things I like to do with LLMs is I call it the reverse Socratic method,
where I ask it lots of questions about either my code or like, oh, you're saying I should
do it this way, but why?
And what if I do it this way?
So instead of like the teacher asks the student lots of questions, the students ask the teacher
lots of questions, that's when we think of the LLM as a teacher.
And I found that I learned a lot of things that way, probing, both learn the nuances
and I see where its limitations are and or where it's just bluffing.
And so I find that to be sort of a useful technique to play with.
Very interesting.
Well, I would propose that Panda's certainly proven itself to be a tad useful.
You know, here and there, there are like a handful of people using it nowadays.
It's astonishing.
I know.
Does it even need an introduction?
I'm not sure that it needs an introduction.
I mean, if
you're listening to this podcast.
15 seconds.
You have your list.
No, well, here's – I'll tell listeners out there,
there's a very interesting group of people who do listen to this podcast.
I'd be interested to hear your thoughts on this.
I've had people write to me and they'll say,
I really love your show.
Thanks so much for doing it.
However, I'm starting to understand a lot of the words that you guys are using
or what you're talking about.
I've been listening for two months or something.
That's the serious persistence to listen for two months and not really like start out not even knowing what's going on.
But a lot of people use this show like language immersion.
You know,
you want
to learn Portuguese, you move to Brazil and then you start learning it, right?
Not the other way around.
And so I'm always cognizant of those folks who are using this to kind of as their first step into the industry.
What do you
tell those folks
Pandas are?
So Pandas is a library, like a module or package in Python that lets you do data analysis.
And the way I describe it to people who are not programmers is it's basically Excel inside
of Python.
So you can read in data from a lot of different sources.
You can analyze it in two-dimensional tables, right?
So you've got rows, you've got columns, and then you can perform a ton of different calculations.
You can use dates, you can use text, but you also have all the flexibility of Python as
a programming language.
so you can extract different parts of it.
You can mix and match different parts of it.
And Pandas is especially really good
at importing from a ton of different sources
and exporting back to those sources
or those destinations, I guess.
And it's become this,
well, to extend the language thing,
like this lingua franca,
like a lot of people use Pandas
for even a tiny subset of what it can do
just because it's so ridiculously flexible
and because it's everywhere.
Yeah, good description.
and this loading data from multiple data sources, it's nuts.
It's crazy how good it is.
So let me just throw an example out there for people who maybe haven't done a lot
with importing data with pandas.
You could do things like there is a HTML table on a state government website
that talks about some bit of data that you need,
and it's just embedded in some web page.
It's the third table, HTML table, bracket table slash table sort of thing on there.
And you can say, load table, give it that URL and say, or load that HTML, give me the tables, go to the third one.
And it's a Pandas data frame.
Like that level of just grab it, right?
So I have my, like one of the newsletters I produce is Bamboo Weekly where I have like challenges each week to use Pandas.
And I'm always trying to retrieve stuff from different sources because A, people have lots
of different needs.
B, there's lots of data out there.
And C, then you have to clean it up and you need different techniques for cleaning it.
And so like, right, you can retrieve it from a PDF file if there are tables there.
You can retrieve, as you said, from HTML.
You can retrieve it from Excel, from JSON, from other statistics programs.
They're binary formats.
It basically is infinite.
And then you've got CSV, which is like every possible almost kind of standard under the sun.
And Pandas is like, oh, that's okay.
We'll just give you 100,000 different options and then you can read any of them.
Yeah, that's amazing.
I'm just blown away with it.
So super, super interesting.
One of the things that I think kind of goes hand in hand with Pandas is, of course, NumPy.
And that's a little bit at the heart of what we're getting at, right?
Like traditionally Pandas has sort of internally used NumPy to manage its data structures and so on.
And there's some new libraries and formats coming along.
And you might be able to mix and match or even have to mix and match eventually.
Right, right.
So it all started, like, so when people hear that Python is the number one language for data science and machine learning and data analytics, if they know anything about Python, they're a little confused.
Like, wait a second.
Python's a great language, but its data structures are big and slow.
Why would I possibly want to use this?
Yeah, especially numbers.
I think if you look at like what is most out of sync or out of space with like C or other native languages, right?
Like how big is a Python float versus a regular one and like
locality
of data, all that kind of stuff.
I think the last time I checked, it was like 24 bytes for a zero integer in Python.
Yes, and they're pointer dereferences and they're on the heap so they might be in different places.
Like there's a lot going on here.
So many years ago, I don't know, 20 years ago or something, we got NumPy.
And NumPy is basically like the best of both worlds.
It's C, storage, and speed.
And so all that efficiency, but with a really thin layer of Python so you can work with it.
And you sort of get the ease of Python and, as I said, the efficiency of C.
And so NumPy is fantastic at doing that.
It's very, very widely used in science, engineering, math, statistics, all that stuff.
And you could do a ton of stuff with NumPy.
I'd be very happy.
But most data analysis that we're going to do is going to be in two-dimensional tables.
And it's going to use a lot of strings.
And with the import and export that we were talking about.
And so I always describe Pandas as like an automatic transmission for NumPy's manual transmission.
That you get a lot of sort of convenience functionality that just makes it smoother, cleaner, easier to do your day-to-day stuff.
and so pandas has been reliant on numpy for well since it started like no doubt about it
and if you sort of chip away or like scrape away the outer
layer there
you very quickly see numpy
stuff for example the d types that the data types that we use in each pandas column those are defined
almost exclusively by numpy types and so i actually when i teach pandas i first teach numpy
because i feel it's like an easier sort of lower level way to get used to it and then they see
techniques apply to pandas as well.
Yeah. The data types are interesting because NumPy is written in
C. C operates on structured, well-defined, you know, this thing is four bytes, that's eight bytes,
and so on. Data types. And so those have really interesting limitations. I have a joke for you
that I ran across recently, and I think it highlights this. So I wish I had a picture I
could share it, but I don't. So there was this programmer that finds one of these genie in a
bottle sort of genie things, rubs it. The genie pops out and says, hello, lucky one. You have
three wishes, but before you can wish, there are some rules. You can't wish to kill someone or make
someone fall in love with you. Most importantly, you can't wish for more wishes. Programmer says,
well, can I wish for fewer wishes? Why would you wish for fewer wishes? I just, I don't understand.
Because I want negative one wishes.
Fine, you have 2,496,000,000.
Oh, that's pretty good.
So what happened?
Why did that go wrong?
I mean, that's the D-types, right?
That's exactly right.
So I never thought of it that way.
I always think, maybe because I'm old enough,
I think you and I are about the same age,
that when you play video games when you were little,
if you're really, really good,
you would get like the maximum score,
it would sort of wrap around back to zero.
Or if you had a
really old car
and if you drove it like a long time,
eventually the odometer would go past zero.
Like
there's a limited number
of digits.
And when after 9999, it has to go back to 000.
And that's basically what's happening bitwise in NumPy.
It has a certain set, unlike Python data types,
like Python integers will get as big
or as small as you have memory.
There is no limit.
But when you're working with NumPy
or with pandas with these d types you have to say is it 8 bits or 16 or 32 or 64 and that's it once
like once you reach that ceiling then it wraps around and it will not warn you about this either
so you need to keep enough of a buffer there between what you think will be your maximum number
and what could possibly ever be your maximum number like if you want to do i don't know 8 bits
for ages, that's probably fine, right?
But if you want to do 8 bits for, I don't know,
how long is the project going, in a number of days,
uh-oh, better hope that your project is going to be done soon
because you could be in trouble and you could be into negative territory.
Yeah, they should have made it a little bit bigger choice
for the epoch since 1970, you know?
That's right.
We're going to find out in 2038 about that one.
I think that's the year.
Anyway, it's going to be bad.
Yeah, so the genie was basically storing the wishes count in an unsigned 32-bit integer.
I love that joke.
And I have no one to tell it to, so I'm very glad you told it to me.
Exactly.
What?
That's a stupid...
I don't even understand.
What a stupid genie.
Of course, they have no more wishes.
They got some more wishes.
Another thing, you talked about this buffer sort of deal.
If you think maybe you need 16 bits or whatever or 32,
maybe you want to be safe so you're going to double that.
That also adds to a bunch of memory usage.
When you allocate 64-bit integers instead of 32,
even if you don't use that space, you consume that much memory.
That's right. That's the thing.
So again, if you're an even experienced Python programmer, you're like, well, I'll just like
whatever the integers need, they need.
But then comes along NumPy and Pandas and they say, no, you have to choose how big it's
going to be.
You're like, well, okay, let's just make everything 64 bits, right?
What could be the cost?
Just be safe.
Right.
And basically, let's say you have a billion rows that, you know, let's say you just have
a billion elements.
Well, 64 bits is going to be literally twice as much as 32.
And that could mark the difference between running out of memory and not running out of memory.
Or having to swap.
It's going to get very bad.
And so, especially since Pandas is constrained by what can fit into available RAM.
So, you're always stuck with this tension with these D types.
between you have to keep it bigger,
big enough to fit all the data you want
and small enough that you'll be able
to fit everything into memory.
And it's a bit of a game.
There's no formula you can use
because you can't know in advance
what all your data is going to be usually.
Yeah.
Yeah, for sure.
I mean, honestly, it really freaked me out a little bit
when I first started doing Python
and it didn't matter what integer type I created.
I'm like, well, I give it this number,
but what if it gets too big?
How do I control that?
You know, you don't.
It's just, it's magic.
Right, right.
And I come from like a dynamic language background.
Like I was always sort of brainwashed to think this is the way normal things are.
And so when I was like told them there are languages where you have to say how many bits it's going to be in advance, I was like, wait, what kind of crazy stuff is this?
But
it turns out a very large number of people see that as totally normal.
Yeah.
It's interesting.
I was just looking at some C-sharp stuff last night,
and all the symbols and all the stuff there.
It seems normal when you're in that.
Then you step out of it.
You're like, wait, I don't have to be constrained by this,
or I don't have to worry about that particular thing.
That's weird.
But wait, if I don't have to worry about it,
why have I been spending all my time and energy thinking about it, right?
But I mean, I would say most languages, actually,
you probably do have to worry about your numerical sizes, right?
Anything that's sort of compiled and allocates things like that,
you work with memory.
Look, it's like a statically typed versus dynamically typed language sort of thing.
Do
you want to have that extra safety?
Do you want to know in advance how much memory you're going to use?
Or do you want it to be more expressive and flexible,
but then potentially have problems if you don't think about enough in advance.
Yeah,
yeah, yeah.
Yeah, for sure.
All right.
So that's, I guess, one more thing before we move on to talk about Arrow.
You can ask Pandas how much data a data frame is consuming, right?
So the answer is, as always with me, yes and no.
You can ask it how much memory it's using, and it will give you an answer.
And sometimes that answer is even accurate.
And the problem is basically that it will tell you how much memory is being used in NumPy.
And so if you've got integers, if you've got floats, if you've got date times, it will be 100% accurate.
The moment that you have strings or other objects, let's just concentrate on strings, NumPy does have strings, and they're terrible.
And so basically, Pandas is like, we're not going to use those.
we're going to use Python strings and we'll just store a pointer in NumPy,
a 64-bit pointer that points the Python string,
which means that if it calculates how much memory is being used by NumPy,
it's showing you how big the pointer is, which is potentially,
I mean, there is no connection.
There's no correlation between that and the size of the string.
All strings are eight bytes.
Problem solved.
That's right.
Well, we've washed our heads of that one.
And so when you use df.info, use the info method on a data frame, it will report back, and then sometimes it'll put a plus after that number.
And the plus means, hey, I've got some strings here in Python memory.
I'm going to just give you a fast answer, and I'm not going to go explore that.
If you really want a real answer, tell me basically deep equals true, and then I'll go off and explore Python memory.
It'll take longer, but you'll get an accurate count.
And that's surprising to a lot of people, including because the index and the column names are also typically strings.
And so the moment you have an index or column names assigned, it'll also give you that plus.
And you can't depend on it.
Yeah, interesting.
And, you know, Python objects have the same issue if you ask in Python.
I can't remember exactly what the
size of.
Yeah, get size of.
That's it.
Yeah, and that does the exact same thing.
So if you've got a list, for example, or a dictionary,
and you ask how big is it, it's like, well,
it's basically how many pointers are stored in its structure
that point out the things.
For the memory class I did at Talk Python,
I had to write some code that would basically traverse
the object graph of all the structures.
And this is actually how big it is,
and this is why it's doing this in memory and so on.
It's not unique to NumPy, but it's just,
you got pointers, it's a lot more work to traverse them and figure that stuff all out.
Okay, so there's a lot of energy around a specification, a library, called Arrow from Apache Arrow.
It's the universal columnar, word always catches me up, columnar, format and multi-language toolbox
for fast data interchange and in-memory analytics.
And so this is super interesting, this project.
Let me go to its homepage or whatever.
But, yeah, you have this for many different languages, right?
It's not just Python.
In fact, it's like NumPy written, and this one's written in C++.
Yeah, I mean, so think about it this way.
I mean, I always sort of think about my evolution of seeing amazing stuff in programming languages.
So it used to be really amazing that you could get strings right back, let's say, 30 years ago.
Wow, you don't think about arrays of characters.
It's just a string.
Amazing.
Fast forward a number of years, and I was amazed by dates and times.
And nowadays, everyone wants to do data frames.
And so Wes McKinney, a bunch of other people, like he invented pandas, said, well, why don't we, instead of everyone inventing our own thing,
why don't we create a back-end data storage system that everyone can use that does all the data frame stuff?
because we all want them in our languages.
And then we can make it really fast and universal
and do lots of inputs and outputs
and even have interchange among these different languages.
And so that's what Arrow is basically trying to do.
It's trying to be like the universal, super fast,
super efficient data frame implementation.
So your pandas library just needs to be a layer on top of that,
which might have some echoes of just being a layer on top of NumPy.
Yeah, it sounds similar.
It sounds familiar.
Yeah, very cool.
So let's talk about this columnar thing, columnar aspect of it.
So I guess Pandas and NumPy operate on the concept of rows.
I've got rows of data, and Arrow is more about I have columns of data
that could somehow have row definitions into them.
And it lets you ask different questions more or less easy, right?
Depending on what you're trying to ask.
Like, what is the average of the miles per hour?
Like, oh, well, that's just this thing.
I go right down the column and boom, here's the answer, you know?
Or you start asking that by rows and arrow,
then it's got to do a lot of work to kind of piece that together.
And quite the opposite for pandas, right?
So I'm still digging into exactly like what's going on there. What you said is I think true,
but it's also true that Pandas data frames, you can think of them, I think of them as like a
dictionary of series where each column is actually a series. So it's not really row by row, but the
NumPy implementation is row by row. So I think like something in the back end there is being
translated differently, but it's a hundred percent true that Arrow is just way faster doing analysis
of a column.
NumPy might be faster at adding elements
or doing that sort of thing.
But the moment that you want to, as you said,
get the mean or get the min or the max
or sum them up or whatever,
Arrow's just blazingly fast
because that's what it was very specifically designed to do.
Yeah, you just preload the data.
You've got to load it into some kind of data structure, right?
And you can do that in ways that optimize some things
at the cost for others.
I think there's
a
little bit of a similarity
between relational databases and document NoSQL ones
in the sense like their data is structured in one way
for really good operations, right?
Like I want to go through this table really well
and I want to maybe follow a relationship.
That's set up really well,
but you're still computing all those things
because they're in like different places in relational ones
And then, like, say, a document database,
if you know there's always this relationship you follow,
you can just put them together and, like, kind of pre-compute them.
But that makes other questions that don't follow that relationship
but, like, use the nested data super, not super hard,
but much harder than it otherwise would be, right?
So it's all about these tradeoffs and how you store stuff.
You know, what kind of questions are you going to ask it?
That's right.
I feel like this is a
little more.
Sorry, go ahead.
I was just going to say, Arrow goes even further than that.
It does compression because it says, well, if I've got all this stuff in the column and I see a lot of the same things, I'll just compress it.
Also, it has strings.
So we don't have to.
Arrow has its own implementation of strings in its binary format right there, which, again, we were talking a few minutes ago about how currently Pandas ignores NumPy strings.
And so it uses Python strings.
And so Arrow offers the opportunity of having them right there in memory nicely and efficiently.
Yeah, for sure.
Now we have PyArrow.
What's the
relationship between Arrow and PyArrow?
So that's actually simple to explain, which is PyArrow is just the Python client for Arrow.
So you want to use Arrow.
You're a Python developer.
You do import PyArrow.
And you now have these data structures available.
By the way, you can do that without pandas.
If you are like a pandas hater or you just have no interest in using it, but you want really fast data storage, use PyArrow.
And there's nothing wrong with that.
I'll even say that my interest in PyArrow and pandas started a few years ago.
I saw a talk at a conference somewhere, and I was so incredibly confused.
I was like, okay, so there's PyArrow and there's pandas, and they say there's a relationship.
But what is that relationship?
I have no idea
and
that's what like
it's all NumPy
and NumPy has nothing to do with it
what's going on here?
right
right right
so
so you can use PyArrow
and there's nothing wrong with it
and it has a rich set of data types
and all sorts of really amazing functionality
and of course it's super fast
somewhere in here
I was looking around for
which
there's a list that says
here's all the different languages
that's supported on the Arrow project
and yeah, it's the implementation status, I believe.
And so it says, well, what data types are supported per language?
So there's like a Java implementation and a C# implementation
and a Julia and a Swift and a Nano and a Rust and so on.
And I'm looking through here and like obviously the C++ one
has pretty much everything supported,
whereas say the Java one doesn't do decimal 32 or 64,
but it does floats or does the big, the really big decimals, you know,
things like that, 120 bit and so on.
And I'm like, something is wrong.
There's something is throwing me off here because I know there's a real
popular Python and I don't, Python is not listed as a language.
So that's throwing me off.
Like, why is this?
So I'm like, Oh, under the details, it says,
unless otherwise stated,
Python, R, Ruby, and CGLib libraries
are following the C++ error library
because there's like a really native tie
to the original C++ version.
Isn't that interesting?
So I think it also means those languages,
like those are all dynamic languages,
well, not C, GLib,
but like the dynamic languages there
are I think these thin layers
that just talk directly to the C++
implementation.
Yeah, exactly.
And so it's like whatever that can do,
we can do too.
boom.
Yeah, exactly. Exactly. So I think when you think about PyArrow, I feel like you almost
should just think about the C++ layer. Or if you hear features of Arrow, look at the C++ stuff
because PyArrow is just like you say, a very thin wrapper on top of that. But at first when I look,
it's like, what? They're talking about C# and Java? No Python in this? I mean, surely there's
enough data science in Python to warrant a checkbox or a check column.
They're like, we're so great,
we don't even need a column.
Exactly. Yeah. We're the native column. Anyway, I think that's really
interesting. So I do want to go, I think this, this little data types thing gives us a bit of a
jumping off point for circling back a little bit. Why did I bring up that genie joke, right? Other
have these D-type concepts
down in the C++
layer, which is really no different in terms
of data types than C.
Right? There's still 4-bit
or 8-bit numbers and so on.
Signed or unsigned.
And you have this here, but
Pi Arrow, and more generally Arrow,
deals with that differently, right?
If you have overflows or missing numbers,
it's not exactly the same as
negative
or positive
of 22 2.4 billion or whatever it is right
i mean so so yeah well the whole miss missing data thing
is a whole problem in and of itself so like i mean there's missing data in every data set we have
right so people forget to enter stuff and sensors go dead and like networks are down all sorts of
stuff so what do you do if the data is missing because you can't just like have a blank space
there. And so
for
many people, their natural, if they're new to this, their natural assumption is,
oh, well, I'll just do a minus one, or I'll use zero, and then it'll be great. And you think about,
well, what happens if the temperature sensors are dead? Okay, fine. So maybe we'll use minus 999.
Well, wait, that's probably not so good either. And so after, it's been a number of years that
people have realized, okay, we need a totally separate thing to indicate the data is missing.
And so that's where NAN comes in, not a number, or in modern Python, it would be NA.
But then you get into other issues of, well, wait, what type is NA or what type is NAN?
And it turns out that NAN in traditional NumPy is a float.
And so if you have a bunch of strings and you want to say there's a missing value, oh,
wait a second, so now we've got strings and we've got this float, oh no.
And it just goes downhill from there.
And so one of the amazing things that Arrow did from the get-go was to say all these types, all these values we have are nullable, meaning that there is a specific value of nan or na or whatnot that fits with all these things.
So you can have integers and na.
You can have strings and na.
You can even have the first row of that table you're showing there is null.
It's kind of wild.
But if your column contains only null values, then it will be defined to have a null dtype.
And then it's just like, oh, yeah, we got 10 nulls.
And then it's like almost zero storage.
And so PyO took this into account.
And it means then that your data is, it's no less accurate, but it's also tighter, easier to work with, and more predictable.
Yeah, if you use a sentinel number or something for missing data, like you're seeing, like negative 999, that may or may not work.
But you better not ask what the average temperature is.
Gosh, it's really cold there.
I thought Hawaii was nice, but no, it's
cold.
That's right.
Yeah, yeah.
Another interesting aspect of arrow, C++ arrow, pi arrow, same thing,
is the copy on write aspect to save memory, right?
So maybe you've got a string that appears a lot of times like Kansas
or Oregon or New Jersey or wherever,
and you've got a million rows of those,
do you need that string repeated a million times, right?
That's right. That's right.
So it's much smarter about that sort of stuff.
Like, you know, it's always easier
to design a software system second time around
when you see where all the issues were.
And I think that they took a lot of the lessons
from be it Pandas, be it R, be it Apache Spark,
all these things.
They're like, okay, where are their inefficiencies for the program
or where are their inefficiencies in the system?
And let's try to just like solve those problems as best as we can
for the general public so they don't have to think about this.
And yeah, that's part of like, so it gets way, way faster, way, way smaller.
Yeah.
We opened our Panda discussion.
We're talking about importing data from lots of different sources.
And it seems like Arrow might be slower because if it's doing compression,
If it's doing deduping and all these types of things, it seems like it would be slower, but it's actually not.
Like loading CSVs is way faster and these types of things, right?
Oh, my God.
There's no comparison.
So loading CSVs, and this is one of those things where PyArrow, and we'll get to this in a bit,
but PyArrow will eventually replace NumPy.
But even today, like when we're recording, you can with like very confidently use PyArrow to read in your CSV files in Pandas.
It won't change how it's stored.
It'll still be stored in NumPy.
I think, I'm not 100% sure, but I think that it does multi-threading and splitting up the file and all that stuff that we would sort of want it to do.
So it's like blazingly fast.
I'll even say like a few days ago, I was talking with people.
I even put up a YouTube video about this because I was just so floored.
So reading in an Excel file, I always thought, okay, Excel's a binary format.
So I'll read it.
It'll be nice and fast.
And it took over a minute for me to read it in Excel.
Wow.
And then I tried it basically using one of the arrow binary formats that it has defined.
I guess we'll talk about that a little bit because I'm jumping on a bit.
And it was, I'm not exaggerating here, 2,000 times faster.
It was so ridiculously, ridiculously fast because
it
is like so optimized for doing like one job and just that one job.
Incredible.
Yeah, you think Excel would be optimized for loading data, but I mean, Excel, the app is.
But I'm pretty sure that the XLXS, whatever, like the format, I think that is a zip file that internally contains a probably namespace-laden XML document.
You are good.
So someone, one of my subscribers at Banff Weekly emailed me and he said, okay, I get it.
You're an open source kind of guy.
You're not up on all the Excel formats.
Let me explain to you.
Just last night we had office hours and he like went into it in more detail.
So you're spot on.
XLSX
is a
zip file.
You can actually unzip it and you can see all the XML files inside.
And so that unzipping and that XML deserialization and so forth, that is where it's taking a ridiculously long time.
Right.
And apparently they didn't optimize for load speed.
They optimized for other stuff.
And maybe that's the right choice for Excel.
but this is like coming back to
like okay we need to fix some of these problems
and what is the most common thing we do
let's optimize for that right
kind of like columnar versus rows
so that brings us to a couple
of file formats that are pretty interesting
let's talk about parquet first
by the way I will admit
I have no idea if you're supposed to say parquet
or parquet so I'll go with you
and parquet I know that like the flooring
is parquet but whatever
you know what I'm going to ask ChatGPT
it's always good at pronouncing things
so the basic idea
is okay like the arrow people
came up with a great way of representing
things efficiently in memory
so they said well what about
representing that on disk
and they actually came up with
two file formats because
you know there are different tradeoffs we want to make
and parquet format
is like a
sort of very, I don't know, verbatim version of, no, yeah, it's actually compressed. It's taking
the binary data that we have and compressing it. What's the good news? Takes very little space on
disk. The bad news is it takes a little bit extra time to do the compression decompression when
you're saving and loading. Feather is the same idea, it just doesn't get compressed. So it takes
more disk space, but it's faster to load and save. In either one of these cases, you'll be completely
utterly blown away by how fast they are. And the fact that they are binary formats that are exactly
the same D types as you have in Arrow means there's no more guessing. There's no more playing
around with CSV and having to nudge in the right direction. There's no more of this really long
loading with Excel that we were just talking about. It just like screamingly fast pulls it
into memory with exactly the D types that you wanted.
Yeah. Super interesting there, I think.
it's still I see too many like because I deal with a lot of public data sets
and I see overwhelmingly they're still using CSV and Arrow
I'm sorry CSV and Excel here and there here and there I'm starting to see
people make things available in parquet format and feather format so like
it's making some inroads among the like data savvy
what I was going to ask is what do you think about the workflow
So I'm going to work on a data science project.
I've got a 200 meg CSV file that takes forever to load.
Maybe the first thing I do is convert it to either,
probably I convert it to Parquet.
I'm going with that French-ish pronunciation as well.
I convert it to Parquet files,
and then from then on my program just works with it.
Maybe even at the start of your notebook or start of your code,
Would you say, what is the last change of the Parquet file and the CSV?
And if the CSV is newer, then regenerate.
You know, some little, like, guard like that.
But just keep your CSV file as part of your project,
but operationally swap it over to one of these new formats and just work with that.
I would 100% go in that direction.
It's like, you know, if you start using UV, you're like, oh, my God, I can't
believe.
I'm not going
back.
I wasted so
many days
of my life waiting
for pip to do its thing.
And in the same way, when you start reading in files from Parquet,
like as opposed to CSV files,
you're
like, oh my God, this is,
like it just happens so fast that you can't even believe it.
Again,
like in
my YouTube video, like I show, I use time,
like I know I didn't use time, but I just like ran,
like loaded in Excel once and took like, again, a minute, 20 seconds.
And then I actually used at time it in Jupyter to
load it from parquet
format.
And it was very happy to do a whole bunch of different loops
and still ended up like way, way, way faster
because it was
so
much, so ridiculously fast.
Yeah, super interesting.
And I think this is a big opportunity here for people to really,
you could probably even for the sufficiently large projects,
maybe you're not even wanting to use Arrow,
but you could still probably load up a data frame in PyArrow.
And then you can call like two pandas or something like that on it, right?
Right.
Although, I mean, you could.
You definitely could.
And that's how I was like sort of first introduced to Arrow.
That's a gentle introduction.
Right.
Like, right.
It was like, well, here's Arrow and here's pandas.
And look, you can convert between the two.
But, I mean, you can.
And maybe there are a lot of people doing that.
I just feel like, you know what?
If I'm going to use Arrow, if I'm going to use PyArrow now, I'm just going to do it like directly inside of.
inside my data frame and get the best of both
worlds.
Right. Super interesting.
So that's one of the big aspects or areas you focus on
in your upcoming PyCon talk is that increasingly there's a way to say,
I want to use Pandas, but Pandas,
don't use NumPy as your underlying storage engine.
Use Arrow instead.
That's right. That's right.
So
at some point,
and it's not clear when, it's like they're going to make the switch where PyArrow will be the default storage and NumPy will be like an optional way to do it.
Right now, it's not even the opposite of that.
Right now, you can specify when you do a read CSV or read Excel or whatever.
You can say D type backend equals PyArrow.
And then they have it like big, bold letters.
This is experimental.
Do not use in production.
here be dragons, that sort of thing. But if you do do it, if you're a little like, you know,
if you're willing to experiment, then the d types you see are not NumPy d types. They are
PyIro d types. And you can see the difference very clearly because it won't say n64, it'll say
n64 square brackets PyIro. So it's very obvious to your eyes when you look at the d types.
And it is blazingly, blazingly fast at anything you want to do on a column. So you want to do
you want to do max you want to um like uh even when you do like group buys um i have in my talk
like i have a whole bunch of graphs that i do and there are a few graphs where the bar for
numpy pandas and the bar for pyro pandas you only see one bar because a pyro data frame
was so fast that like it's just like
basically might as well be zero right
um so so i wouldn't
say people should run out and put this in production just yet, but with every passing
month or two, it's getting better and faster and more stable. And this
is definitely the direction in which we're
going. Very interesting.
And so when you make that recommendation like stable versus non-stable production, not production,
I feel like that probably is a statement on
Pandas plus PyArrow integrated, not a statement on
Aero itself.
That's exactly right. That's right.
that the core developers are still like cautioning us because they're still like issues and i don't
even know when i first started using pyro inside pandas i guess about two years ago um and i tried
to do a bunch of string methods and said hey this string method is not even implemented and
now as
far as
i can tell all the string methods are um but there are there are all sorts of holes that i
i have not encountered that i'm sure exist um and there there's also one big sort of downside of
of using Pyro, which is if you try to retrieve things by row. So if you're doing like.ilock
to retrieve by row location, it is way slower than NumPy. Because suddenly it's like, oh
wait, you want to do by row? We're not so good at that. Hold your horses. Now, how often
do you do that? Maybe not that often. Maybe it's not that big of a game changer. But you
do need to take that into consideration. It's not a
100% win.
It's also, you
can convert from the
NumPy version to the
PyArrow version, right?
Yeah, yeah. So there are
two different things there. So one is
if you have
a data frame. And so you can always use
the as type method to take a series
and get a new series back
from it with a new dtype.
So if I have n64 and I want to make it n32
or vice versa, I say dot as type
destination dtype, I get back a series, and I can even assign it back to that original column.
And that'll work just fine. So instead, I can say as type n64py arrow, and then assign it back. And
you can mix and match the dtypes. So you can have a data frame in which some dtypes are pyrow,
some dtypes are numpy. Now, I just discovered literally in the last few days, in preparation
for updating my talk, that there is a pandas option. Let's see, what is it? It is, I wrote
this down here, future.inferString. So if you set
future.inferString
to be true, and then you load
a CSV, all of your strings will be py arrow strings, as opposed to Python strings, as opposed to
numpy strings. And they are marked as, this has got to be like, someone came up with this, numpy
PyArrow. Now, what does that mean? It means that it's stored in PyArrow, but it uses some sort of
NumPy API accessor so that like Pandas doesn't freak out, something like that. But it still uses
like the PyArrow storage. So you're not going out to Python memory. It uses dramatically less memory
than before and it's dramatically faster. And that seems like an in-between step that people might
want to adopt if they have a lot of string data.
That is an interesting step.
When you UVPIP install Pandas, do you have to also include PyArrow in order to get these
featured, or does it come along?
So the official statement that I've seen is that Pandas 3 will, and I don't think there's
a release date for that, Pandas 3 will
require PyArrow as a dependency.
So even though they're not going to change
the default, it'll still be
default using NumPy, but you'll have to have it around.
I don't believe
that it's automatically installed when you install
Pandas now, so I believe that you have to
pick and install
both
of them. It would probably raise an
exception if you said the
D type was string bracket PyArrow,
but it didn't have PyArrow.
Yes, for sure.
And I haven't done
a lot of investigation to this,
but it seems that Pyro has a lot of rich data types
and it even has lists and structs.
And it seems that Pandas now has,
just as it has.store and.dt
to get to strings and date times,
it has a.list and a.struct.
I've literally written that down
as something to investigate
before I do my talk next month,
but it seems that they're trying to expose
these complex arrow data structures
from within Pandas as well.
How many people are
really going to use it?
I'm not sure, but it seems kind of interesting.
It's going to
be interesting
to see
what the row-based operation performance,
what happens to that, you know?
I'm just thinking, is it almost at the point currently
if it's slow enough that if you know you're about to enter
into a whole bunch of, asking a bunch of row-oriented questions,
do you convert it to a NumPy-based data frame?
Then ask a bunch of questions and then throw that away
and carry on or i don't know no
like you know i've been thinking about well okay how many
row
operations do i really do and it turns out not to be that many like i think they're making the right
call here
oh of course it
can't be like i just don't think that they're going to leave it this
slow um and i see i can't remember exactly what it was but when i started playing with
pyro i remember i think it was grouping i think it was grouping or maybe joining one of those two
was really, really slow.
And I was in touch with one of the core developers
and they were like, don't worry, we know.
We're working on it.
That's why it's still not ready for prime time.
And it's definitely improved a ton since then.
So
there are definitely
people
working hard on this stuff.
Yeah, there's probably some data structures
they can compute at load time
that allow them more efficient iteration
of row-oriented data
if it turns out to be a problem.
Maybe,
I
don't know, maybe you could set a flag
include optimizations for rows or whatever.
It does a little extra work to pre-compute.
Let me ask questions of that data structure and then that maps into the real
columnar structure or whatever. I don't know. Who knows? It'll be interesting to see
where it goes though.
Yeah, for sure.
So once you have
columnar data or you just have PyArrow underneath in general
it leads into the possibility of more direct interaction with other libraries,
like speaking of things like DuckDB, right?
DuckDB is really focused on analytics more than rows,
like kind of SQLite versus
DuckDB is kind
of the same thing as,
you know, Pandas versus PyArrow type thing.
What do you think about the interop there?
that make any differences?
Having played with DuckDB, what are your thoughts?
So first of all, I've played with DuckDB
and it is just like astonishingly fast.
Like it amazes me that something
that queries Pandas data frames
can be faster than Pandas itself.
Right, you think that would be the,
how could it possibly outrun the thing
that is its foundation as part of that conversation, right?
Like how could that be?
And yet it is.
So I increasingly see it this way,
that pandas, as much as people love to hate it
and they say, oh, it's got this problem
and that problem and so on and so forth,
it's becoming, as much as it is a package,
it's becoming like a pluggable infrastructure
that you'll be able to have
different backend storage facilities
like NumPy, PyArrow,
and then those will talk to databases and so forth.
And then the query structure
is also looking pluggable in some ways,
whether it's DuckDB or FireDucks
or like who knows people will come up with more stuff
and so you'll be able to sort of use pandas
without using pandas almost
and like choose your weapon
I don't know where this is heading
but I think it just cements pandas
as like not just the default over stuck with it
but as like the sort of meeting place
for all these data manipulation libraries
in the Python world
Yeah. Yeah, very interesting. You know, the other big contender, I suppose, is probably Polar's, right?
Right.
For solving these types of problems and so on. And I believe it's also based on Pyro, right?
I believe so. Right. And so a lot of it's speed. I mean, look, I have only the most positive things to say about the developers and the people working on it, people using it.
It is indeed astonishingly fast.
And I think that's partly due to Arrow and partly due to like very hard work by Richie and so forth.
I just don't see it like sort of pushing pandas aside
simply because
it's too entrenched.
I don't know if you remember, again, like I'm dating myself, but like years ago, the Lisp people were furious that C was like the main language.
And there was this famous article called Worse is Better that basically said, how can it be that Lisp is not the number one language when we all know it's fantastic?
How can this terrible language C be taking over the world?
And the answer was, well, it's everywhere.
And they've made a good run of getting it everywhere.
So, tough luck.
And I think in some ways,
even if
Polars is better, like Pandas is there and people are using it.
And you go try telling all these banks, nah, we're going to throw out all the Pandas work we've done in a lot of years and put in Polars.
Which is not
going to happen.
No, it's not going to happen.
I do think there's interesting libraries like I interviewed Marco from Narwhals, which is like an interoperability story between those two.
I've heard about it.
I've heard you talk about it.
I've played with it a tiny, tiny bit,
but not enough to really have a real opinion.
But as far as I'm concerned,
anything that does interoperability, like, fantastic.
It's pretty interesting in that it basically,
it knows if you pass it a Pandas data frame
or a Polar's data frame,
and then it kind of adapts what it does
to allow you to sort of operate on either,
kind of with the same operations,
which is pretty interesting.
But you do have to use the Polar's API,
so that's something there, I suppose.
Yeah, and I think this PyArrow change that's coming along
is going to be powerful, right?
Certainly the speed is going to be well appreciated.
The ability to load larger amounts of data
rather than duplicating a bunch of strings and so on is great.
But what do you see as the pitfalls or the challenges?
You know, we're getting short on time here.
Maybe we could wrap it up with like both a statement of encouragement
and steps to take, but also maybe warnings to be looking out for.
I don't think I have too many warnings.
Like so far, I think the Pandas core developers have been very cautious and slow.
Probably some people would argue too slow, but I think it's good.
Like this is people's data.
This is like a serious thing.
Take it slowly.
Be careful.
Make sure everything is really working the right way and working quickly.
But I think like it's very encouraging.
And I would say if you're using Pandas right now, it's worth doing like taking a little detour for a little bit of time.
Try out PyArrow.
Try out these other details.
At the very least, you should certainly be using PyArrow to be loading your CSVs.
And you should even try out this loading of strings that I just discovered recently.
I think just those things alone might speed up your pipeline to give you faster iterations and feel better about it.
And just be ready at some point, right, at some point in the next few years, I don't know exactly when, they're going to flip that switch and say Pyro is now the default.
And you will be able to, I find it impossible to believe that they're going to say, and we're chucking NumPy.
That's not going to happen.
but you will need to say explicitly,
I want to stick with it.
And some people,
I think a lot of people are going to find it advantageous to,
to make that change along with pandas.
Yeah.
It's going to be exciting.
It is going to be exciting.
So one area maybe I could ask you about is reproducibility.
That matters for businesses.
Like you want to go like,
well,
we ran this report and we made this important decision to spend a billion
dollars on this thing based on this analysis.
Still good.
can we make a mistake?
but certainly in the sciences
right?
like people build upon papers
and theories as if
they are perfectly solid building blocks
and if those things were to
have trouble that would be a real big problem
you want to be able to rerun your code
10-15 years later
changes like this could make it
not tomorrow or the next day but
eventually you could see it drifting far enough where
it's like oh we're kind of done with NumPy
and we're moving on to this thing.
And eventually it might be tricky
to get exact reproducibility.
Right.
It's sort of like,
I remember I saw a talk about porting,
if I remember correctly,
like NumPy to Wasm.
And they were like,
did you know that NumPy requires Fortran?
And so we had to like,
like, I think it's NumPy.
Like there was some part of this whole,
like
the PyData stack,
and none of us would have expected this
because we're all like Fortran, right?
Who uses that?
But it turns out, right, people use these things.
So people are going to have to take this into account.
I think NumPy will still be around.
Look, it's still a very actively used package.
It's just not a good match for a lot of things that Pandas is doing.
So you might need to, I don't know, put in your package specification
what versions you want, that you do want NumPy to be included.
Like, it might be a little harder in the future.
I don't think, like, there's enough of an installed base.
I don't think they're going to just like throw people to the wolves.
I think it's going to be,
it's not going to be a Python two to three situation.
I
think enough of us have enough
like emotional scarring
that
it's not going to happen.
Yeah, I agree.
I don't think it will happen.
I'm just thinking, you know, over the longterm,
you can see sort of a slight eroding to the point where maybe,
I mean, do we really think about running the same code 20 years later?
Sometimes, but not that often.
Not that often.
I mean,
Python's only 30 years old.
NumPy's only 20, right?
That's double its life, right?
That's a long ways out.
Pandas is less old.
Right, right.
I'm not too worried about that,
but someone somewhere is going to get the short end of the stick
a number of years from now, and that's okay.
That's what their grad students are for.
They can't rewrite it.
No, more seriously, maybe pin your versions, right?
If you're doing any sort of reproducibility,
definitely pin your versions,
but maybe even download some wheels
and just hang on to some wheels for Linux
or do a Docker sort of thing or something like that.
Who knows?
That's right.
All right.
And all these problems are obviously
a sign of it being
so successful, right? Pandas being so successful.
Oh, for sure.
The numbers are just
astonishing. I think the last estimate were like
they're between 5 and 10 million
people using pandas nowadays.
And let's assume
that's like off by a factor of 10.
It's still an astonishing number.
It is astonishing.
It's amazing.
Well, we're
going to be at PyCon.
I got to book some stuff.
In like five weeks from the time of recording,
even less time from the time of release, maybe two weeks.
Tell people about your talk.
They can come see your dive into this,
which I think will be fairly different.
We didn't just go right down the slides of your talk
or nothing like that.
So there's
a lot to learn from
going to your talk.
Yeah, the talk is much more like code oriented.
Like here are like, here's how it looks.
Here's how it works.
Here's like a speed comparison.
Here's where it's better.
Here's where it's worse.
I haven't told people about the title.
Oh, yes.
So it's called The Pie Arrow Revolution in Pandas.
And it's
going to be Friday morning.
I think I'm telling the
truth there.
Get people while they're fresh.
Yeah, exactly.
I will not be standing between them and lunch,
which has often been the case in previous talks.
And strangely, you don't get a lot of questions then.
That's interesting.
I wonder how that works.
No, you don't want that.
And you don't want the last talk of the day,
the last talk of the conference.
But I mean, it's still good.
People still appreciate it.
But it's just, it's the reality of travel and airplanes
and hunger and all these things.
So really good.
I encourage people to go check out your talk.
And it should be fun.
It should probably be up on YouTube.
I don't know what the time frame this year for talks being converted to YouTube videos will be, but eventually.
Yeah, usually it's like, what, like two months or so after the
conference.
Yeah, something like that.
I'm pretty confident.
Yeah, absolutely.
Indeed.
Reuben, always great to catch up with you.
Thanks for being on the show.
My great pleasure.
I'll see you in a month.
Yep.
Bye.